## Movies-on-OTT-platform
# A SQL based data analysis to understand which OTT is most effective in terms of price, Library size, rating, content, Genre, Language and movies for different age groups.


we all watch movies right, which are like an important art forms, a world wide source of entertainment, and a powerful medium for educating or indoctrinating citizens. The way we consume them has undergone massive changes. Now we have multiple OTT platforms or say streaming services such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, and Disney+ to stream TV shows and movies online. With overabundance of information and multiple criteria to compare various OTT platforms, it has become increasingly difficult for users to find the best fit for their tastes. Through this study, I have observed different OTT platform data sets to provide users with insights into each platform to determine which services to subscribe to. Amongst multiple factors affecting online streaming subscriptions, I mainly analyzed target audience, genre, cost, library size, language and content.

This study will help fintech companies like paytm and phonepay who give coupons or offer based on these platforms, Ecommerce comapnies like flipkart who again frame its use of supercoins (coins which are collected on each order) based on these platforms only, Telecom companies like jio and airtel who build their recharge packages by including the subscription of these platforms and ofcourse the end users which are us, to identify the best one for subscription.

For this study I have used a database with two tables namely OTTs containg information about cost and library size and a table named movies containg the information about most famous set of 9501 movies on these platforms. Different tables were formed by using SQL based analysis and the tables were imported in excel to create plots for visualization.

According to the data analysis, Streaming services are most effective in India as compared to major 5 countries and are least effective in Australia. It is because the library size in australia is average while the cost of subcription is very high for all OTTs. So OTTs companies need to optimize their services there which will eventually optimize their revenue also.

In India, Netflix needs to provide low rates on its subscription to sustain in market as it has tough competition with prime video which is very good in terms of library size per $ dollar of subscription. Netflix is very good in terms of library size but when it comes to price, it is very high which is like little less affordable for the people of countries like India which is having very less per capita income. Disney+ needs to decrease its cost and increase its library size at the same time because both are putting it at bottom while comparing with Netflix and Prime video.

Talking about content, Netflix is more suitable when taking in terms of genre and recent content, Disney+ is more suitable in terms of rating and target audience while Prime video is more effective in terms of library size per $ of subscription and language richness. So, platforms like Jio, Airtel, Flipkart, Phone-Pay etc. for their offer purposes and for building their recharge packages can choose Prime video keeping in consideration its language richness and least cost in India. If money is not a problem, end users can go for Netflix keeping in consideration its largest library size, average rating, good no of recent movies, and richness in terms of genre.

Disney+ has to work towards its library size and cost both as explained earlier to sustain in market with prime-video and Netflix. However when coming to average rating of movies on it and movies from different decades, it has better content but that is not the only thing which will increase its subscribers.

LINK TO VIDEO OF DETAILED PRESENTATION - https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mqlxRAzg5Trj03z9dzIsZMOBTh7vTGRr/view?usp=sharing
